---
layout: post
author: Jacob Garby
title: Finally Spring
---

It was a long winter and I've been looking forward to spring coming for a long time now, for the better weather and more interesting things to take photos of. Today and yesterday the weather was great (particularly today), so I went to Trädgårdsföreningen once again to find some birds. At some point, surely, I will have to find a new place, but there always seems to be interesting stuff happening here.

First, here's a goldeneye I saw yesterday. I went out with a tripod this time, and it was amazing the difference it makes when using my super long lens. It's so much easier to keep it still.

{% thumb /assets/img/photography/goldeneye.jpg %}

These next three are from today. I came across three different birds: a fieldfare, a goose, and a great tit. Actually, I hadn't heard of a fieldfare before, so I had to ask a friend to ID it for me. It's a type of thrush, and in Swedish is called a björktrast (birch thrush), which is fitting.

{% thumb /assets/img/photography/fieldfare.jpg %}

Usually geese look pretty mean, or at least fed up, but this one looked a bit kinder. Maybe cause of the crocuses in the foreground. I'm sure it would still hiss at me if I got closer.

{% thumb /assets/img/photography/goose.jpg %}

Got a bit lucky with the focus in this shot -- it was a bit tricky with all the tiny branches in the way, and he really didn't sit there for long. This was next to a bird feeder, so there were several tits congregating.

{% thumb /assets/img/photography/greattit.jpg %}
